Questions have been submitted from various sources
for the general public to refer to, so
we can gain more knowledge and then
share it with others.
How can I be smart if I write this question by hand?  If you
want your children and grandchildren to be intelligent,
we'll find a way to solve that.
We want to be intelligent ourselves,
not just our children and grandchildren.
We also want to be intelligent.
Hello Aunt Yen.  I have a question and I would
really appreciate it if you could answer it for me.
How can I be reborn as
an intelligent person in my next life?
If you want to be intelligent in your next life, you
have to be more intelligent in this life so that you can be intelligent in the next life
.  If we
keep getting dumber and dumber, we
won't be able to be smart in the next life.  We
must become more intelligent in this life so that
we can become more
intelligent in the next life.  So,
the first thing we need to do to
become smarter is to
eliminate laziness.
A lazy person will be stagnant
and will never be able to become intelligent or
brilliant.
So, the second step is to learn to
listen.  Because someone who knows how to listen
is someone who is very eager to learn.   A
willingness to learn is essential for good listening.  Yes, a thirst for
knowledge is a sign of intelligence.
And when you want to do
something, you have to be diligent;
you can only be intelligent if you're not lazy.
Lazy people tend
not to listen much or learn
much.  You see, a smart child
is also a result of a lot of studying.  Through
learning, a child will gradually become smarter, so compare
them to how they are now.  If a child studies diligently and
listens attentively to their teachers' lectures today, they
will be smarter tomorrow than they are today.
That means comparing yourself to yourself.
Someone who is already intelligent can do it in
about 5 minutes with their diligent pace, but because I'm
stupid, it takes me 10 minutes.  Therefore,
I am smarter than I think I am.
First, I need to find out if I'm a
lazy person or not.  I'll get rid of that
laziness.  Secondly, if we
are not good listeners, we must
learn the virtue of listening to others.
Thirdly, you must have the desire in your heart to
contribute.
Intelligence always leads
to dedication;
what's the point of being intelligent otherwise?  Dedication is essential.  This way,
we can cultivate this mindset for
ourselves and help our children
become quick-witted and intelligent.
Personally, I always
make sure my mind doesn't become
sluggish or restless.  That's for the
root of thought; don't become lazy or restless. There's one
thing that prevents us from becoming
lazy or resting: keep our mind—
our root of thought—always
monitoring our thoughts.
So, that means it always has work to do
, meaning it can't be lazy.
That means our minds and intellect must not
be lazy.
Examine whether your mind is good or
bad, or what the action you just performed was about.   That
means it's always in control, meaning
you don't give it a break
.  Otherwise, you'd invite some people to
do certain things, and if someone doesn't invite you, then you wouldn't
.  In other words, if you don't make an
effort to think for
yourself, you will become foolish.
Therefore, one should always use wisdom to examine one
's own heart.  Use your intellect to look into your heart.
We think about what needs to be done and
what shouldn't be done.   Is
my mind pure or
impure in this matter?
Was what I did right or wrong?  That means the
first thing is that our fundamental intention is to be diligent; we
haven't even considered our words and actions yet.  What does it mean?
First, be diligent physically, then be diligent verbally, and then
what?  Hard-working.  For example, I might
think that this
is a good deed.  So, it was his intention that
made me go to work.  If I feel like
I've done it myself, why should I tell
others what to do?  Tell someone else to do it.  There.  So,
first of all, your intention is that
you must be diligent.  Then,
once you've diligently put your own ideas into practice,
you have to let them listen to and
accept the opinions of others.  That's
when I started listening.
And if one diligently practices charity, then that body
will become intelligent.  So, the simple principle
of intelligence is hard work,
listening, and practice—that's
how you become intelligent.
Like someone who has a mind that encompasses everything, from
one thing to another.  People say that
now Yen only speaks within the context of
work, not in a religious setting.  For example, the person who
cooks the rice is
assigned the task of cooking rice, but they have to
observe carefully to see if the dish tastes
good and if there is enough time for
their fellow practitioners to work in the temple
.  So, you can't be lazy,
right?  One must
consider how to make their work
suitable for one side, a task that
is related to six other
places that also need to do it. They must
think about how to do it
well and
appropriately so that the other six sides can work together, and
the work reaches its
ultimate goal, bringing about positive results for
everyone.  Then there's no laziness involved.
But if you just accept the job, and
I just do my job
without paying attention to what's going on around me...
Sometimes, the monks would be begging for alms at 11 o'clock,
but I would just cook rice and
not think about what I had to do on the other side of the temple
, not think about what I had to do on the other side.
So, it dragged on until almost 11 o'clock before it was
finished, and when we finally uncovered it, there was no result
anymore.  So, if you explain that you
have to think continuously and listen to
others, you'll realize that you're being slow today.
Mai, you have to work harder, otherwise the people on the other side
won't be able to do the job.  Should we
listen?  Listen and learn from experience.
Having listened and learned from the experience,
I have to speed up, I have to
work faster.  Then that guy will become
smarter and more intelligent.  Be smarter
.  What about children?  For
young children at home, we should give them
a task; it's best to give them a small chore
.  I gave him a task and taught
him how to observe.  That's part of a
job that teaches observation skills.  For example,
wash the vegetables, son.  Oh, son, wash
this tomato for me.  After finishing these tomatoes, Mom
still has to go upstairs to chop them.
After finishing the chores, Mom put them in this pan and cooked it.
So tomorrow I'll ask her, "Honey, wash the
tomatoes for Mommy."  Then I asked, "
Why are you washing tomatoes?"  What did Mom do
next?  My mother is still chopping.  After slicing it, my mother
put it back in the pot to cook.  That means children naturally develop the ability to
think through a range of tasks.  There.
It can think.  Because it can think like
that, its mind isn't lazy.
How can I prevent my child's mind from becoming
lazy and encourage them to seek out factual information?  The truth is, we shouldn't
let children play video games too much
because it makes them passive and they lack
initiative.  For example, the
course of the game is
predetermined, and the children are unable to
follow it, and they have
nothing to listen to either.  In other words, it's
passive; it just watches, watches to learn and laugh,
but it doesn't address
the intellectual aspect.  So people say that
children should watch a lot of it so they'll learn and become
smarter.  No, that's not right
.  Watching too much of it will definitely make you
depressed, not smarter.
Because it lacks the ability to listen, to
cultivate, and to practice,
its intellect cannot develop.  There.   And
this kind of intelligence, which
the teacher also explained today, is not yet
wisdom.  With this kind of intelligence, we
must connect it with a compassionate heart.  Okay,
I need to teach them what this is used for
.  What is the purpose of doing this, of thinking this way
?  That's when children first start to
think and reason.  My child, why are you washing the
tomatoes?  For Thai's mother.
What is Mother Thai for?  Thai's mother cooked it.
Why are you cooking?  Cook for the whole family.  Wow, that's great.  So, after
washing the tomatoes, the whole family got to eat them.
Naturally, your child will develop a mindset of
goodness.  Then he said, "That child should go out and
do it."  For example, it might say, "Today
there's a chicken... oh yes, there is... someone
caught a chicken... oh, two fighting chickens are fighting over there
."  That's great.  If a child says
that, then what's the point of cockfighting on
them?  In cockfighting, there are winners and
losers.  So what's wrong with
Thang?  Thang kicked the other girl so hard her guts came out
.  Does it hurt when your intestines are protruding
?  The child said it hurts a lot.  So, if
someone else also wanted to win and kicked you until your
guts spilled out, would you like that?  No.  That's all, I
see.  I don't like it either.
That's all, I don't like it anymore.  Prefer.   That
means it can distinguish between good and evil.  If it helps children abandon
evil, then that is developing compassion in their
hearts.  This also ensures that
its intelligence doesn't become lazy.  It knows how to
think
logically and ethically in all matters.  There.  So, if you want to be
intelligent in your next life,
you must learn how to make yourself intelligent in this life
and guide others on how to be
intelligent; only then will you be intelligent in your next life.
But if you just practice whatever you want, and only
see the results in the next life, then you're realizing you practiced
incorrectly.  But the results must be immediate, right
now.  For example,
this flower and this flower.
So, from the beginning, we have to see the reed
to know that this reed will bloom
into flowers.
Right?  The result must be that I see
a hundred flowers, I see the bud, and only then do I
know it will wither and turn into a withered flower.
But if you practice blindly, thinking, "I'm practicing
now, I don't need to know anything, I don't
see any results, but I'll see results in the next life
."  I know it was a mistake.  If you're
smart, you have to be smart right now. You
have to develop your mind,
you have to become enlightened so that you can accept that the
path you're taking is the right one.
That's it. You need to observe everything
from the beginning to the final result
you'll achieve before you can actually do anything
.  Therefore, always teach
your mind to think
quickly and thoroughly in all matters.
Often, when people practice spiritual cultivation, they
fall into the trap of ego attachment.  That means all I
know is that I'm doing this job because
I've been assigned this task, and that's all I do.
But I forgot what the purpose was
.  For example, as Buddhist practitioners,
what do we aim to achieve through our practice?  Having
attained egolessness, one then forgets.  So I
thought that just being able to cook a pot of rice was my
achievement and stopped there.  But the concept of non-self has been
forgotten.  Therefore, it will not be intelligent.
That's it, without wisdom, you are incapable of
eliminating suffering because you are attached to the ego.
Therefore, we must
strive for intelligence and wisdom, not just be
clever and quick-witted in observing things,
but still cling to our ego.  That means
what we're striving for is at a
lower level.  In other words, what we can do
to accept our ego, to enjoy some small amount of good fortune,
that is a low-level achievement.  As
a Buddhist disciple, we should
strive for agility, intelligence, and keen
observation, while also eliminating all
defilements.  Suffering arises from attachment to the self
.  Therefore, we must strive to
eliminate ego attachment so that we may
receive greater karmic rewards.  That is the path to
liberation from all suffering, to escape the
cycle of birth and death.  Therefore, in all
things, if we want to cultivate
intelligence and wisdom, we must observe
carefully, eliminate worries, and always remember
our ultimate goal in everything we do
.  That means you should always allow
yourself to observe your thinking.  Don't let
observation and thinking stop.   Was it let go? Was it released? Was it thrown around recklessly?
That's the first question.   The
next question is also
for young people and for all of
us.
This is the students' question.  The children chose
not to know who their best friend was
.  Sometimes, you mistakenly reconnect
with old friends who
turned out to be unkind to
you.  My best friend, the one I thought
was the closest, ended up
causing me the most trouble.   It
causes trouble.  So, we need to
know who our best friend will be.
Who would I choose to be my
best friend?  Yen also has the habit of
choosing friends; she
knew how to choose close friends from a very young age
.  There are friends who share
everything with me, and there are friends I know will
only share some things with me, and some things they can't
share with me.  And can this friend
stay with me forever?
Should I be wary of people?
So, Yen will now give you some
signs of who
could be your best friend and who
you can't be best friends with.
Yen answered Nick's questions in
Thu Pham's messages.
I have friends whom I consider very
close, but the kindness I show
them isn't outwardly apparent; it's
hidden within.  The child was brought back but did not receive
genuine love and support from
those friends.  Not long ago, I found
out that those friends were talking badly about me and
didn't want to play with me anymore.  Knowing
that, I lost trust and
had to abandon the people I used to hang out with
.  How can I tell who
my best friend is?
I usually turn to my friends
when I need them
most, especially when I'm in trouble or facing difficulties.   It is
in times of hardship and adversity that you truly know your
friends.
However, if, during times of
hardship or difficulty,
we only bring them
benefits or advantages, then we
cannot yet say that person will be our best friend
.
But if we don't choose our best
friends when we're not in
trouble, how can we have them when we are?
Therefore, we should still choose our best friends
when we are not in trouble.  So,
what are the signs of a true best friend
?
First of all, this friend doesn't go around
badmouthing other people.
Because gossiping is human nature.
So, if people can speak ill of others
, can they speak ill of me
?   Yes
.
Therefore, first and foremost, I immediately cut off any close friends who
badmouth other people to me
.
Don't tell people too many stories.  There will come a
day when people will take my story and spread rumors to tarnish my reputation
.  You can't choose
people who badmouth you as your best
friends.  Untrustworthy.
First, look for people who are prone to gossiping and
talking behind others' backs.  For example, we
see this friend hanging out with someone
else, then telling them about that
person's behavior, then
criticizing them, and all sorts of other things. I don't want to hang out with
people like that. But people
confide in me, saying things like, "I hang out with this girl,
but she has two traits that
make me very upset. Now I
don't know how to help
her become a better person
."  Because people always want
the people they hang out with to improve,
they will trust those people
.  But if I see someone badmouthing another
person behind their back to ruin them, I
immediately cut that friend off.  Don't
tell everyone that you're dead.  There are times when
you can be betrayed at any moment,
right?  So, we are older people
.  We already know this.  Don't consider
people who speak ill of others, gossip
behind their backs, or have malicious intentions towards others as
close friends.
Never consider that person a close friend.
Furthermore, some people often plot and
scheme to harm others, but then confide in
others about it.  I know that
I'm just listening to this person and
helping them by telling them not to do
such harmful things.  Helping people doesn't
mean they can rely on
you; you can't rely on
them.  That kind of person, who is full of
schemes and plots to harm others, is
not someone I can rely on
.  I can only be a source of support for
others.  That means we can only help
people, but we shouldn't think about earning a
living from them.  People can help
you at any time.  So that's the
second sign.   The
third sign is that when they are in trouble, you
help them and they treat you well in return.  Don't assume
they'll be your relatives.
Because there's nothing to measure right now.
Because I'm helping them, they're being nice to
me.
So, while they're being nice to
you, you have to observe how they treat
others, especially the person they're
harming.  That means the person who harmed them.   Do
they really want to hate and take
revenge on the person they were wronged by?   Even
after I advised them, they couldn't shake off
this hatred.  I know
this person can't be
my best friend.
That's because people keep nurturing their
hatred and malice until they're satisfied
.  In this life, I can never
let anyone be completely satisfied.  So
eventually, people will treat
you the same way.  That's right, if you harbor resentment,
malice, and a desire for revenge, you can't possibly choose
that person as a close friend.  No, that's
impossible.
So, from an external perspective,
you can't choose who your best friend is.  So,
can I create a best friend for
myself?  In other words, is it possible to
create a circle of people around me who can become
my close friends?  There are ways
to create them.  I have many
close friends, but I can create them myself.
The first factor is the
opposite of the above; if we
see those factors as bad,
then we have to do the opposite.  Don't
speak ill of others,
don't gossip behind their backs, absolutely
don't speak ill of anyone.
Secondly, I believe that one should keep their word
and maintain credibility.  Don't keep saying one thing at one time and something completely different at another; otherwise,
people won't trust
you.  See, if you don't trust yourself, you
won't have any close friends, right?  I
can't have a best friend.  There.  Therefore,
when we speak, we must keep our
promises.  If you fulfill your promises,
people will
trust you and become close to
you.  There.  And thirdly, when
people's minds give rise to unwholesome thoughts, we
must help them change their minds and cultivate
wholesome thoughts.  So,
that means people transform themselves to
have a kind heart.  This way, I will create
many close friends for myself.  There.  Because
firstly, I don't speak
ill of anyone behind their back; that's not
about money or deceit.  There's no room for
deception.
There.  Another point is that keeping a promise is also
not something to be dishonest about.  Therefore, I'm not
afraid of people being dishonest with me.
There.  Thirdly, if people have
negative thoughts or engage in
negative actions, we should advise them to
use positive words.  Of all
those circumstances, there wasn't a single one that
brought
people together in this way.  There is no reason why
someone would harm me.  Therefore,
they will become like family to
you.  I only accept giving and
receiving; I don't come to you thinking, '
I'm befriending you because you'll benefit
financially,' because that would be the end of me.  Therefore, I
wouldn't choose a best friend for the money
.  I didn't seek out best friends for any personal gain;
I found them in places where we could
share our experiences, and that's how I ended up having so many close friends.
And these close friends have
benefited from me.
Therefore, during difficult times, when we are
struggling, what they offer
us is genuine sincerity and honesty.
Don't worry about them being dishonest because I don't
bring dishonesty to
others.  That's the factor that led
me to choose myself, and I want to have
many close friends around me.  Being close friends means having
many people who
don't harm you, who aren't powerful enough
to do so.
That's why everyone is like that in
this life; a true best friend is
very precious. Before,
when I was little, I also
longed for this.
I longed to be able to
tell everything to someone, to have nothing to
hide in my heart. But I could
n't satisfy that feeling with my parents.
Because sometimes, when we express our opinions
, our parents impose their own views
without sharing them with us, without
making us feel
comfortable or convinced.  That's how it is
with my parents too.  So
I learned my lesson and won't
treat my child that way.
So, I'll be my child's best friend, I'll
let them talk everything out, then I'll guide them,
and they'll make their own decisions.   It
decides for itself.  When I share
everything I've laid out for them, and
if they make a wrong decision later,
they can come back to me and I'll still be
their best friend.
Even
when I went to pick it up, with my
friends around, I still felt like I couldn't
express everything.  Yen felt
inadequate, unable to fully explain everything to
her friend.  Because what I told
my friend was later found out by
others, meaning my friend
went and told
other people, I couldn't choose.  I can only give an approximate answer
.  It's relatively easy to ensure that
people don't harm you.  So, it means
living together is somewhat peaceful
, without harming each other because we
don't share anything of ours.
So, if I feel this person is receptive to
this sharing, then I'll share it like
this.
I share things that I feel the other person can understand and accept.  But
Yen's greatest desire is to have someone she can completely confide in.  Yen doesn't know about others,
but she truly longs for it.
Having someone you can confide
in, even if it's just a small thought, means you
can express everything and
share your feelings.
Then, when she gets married, she'll
find herself even more unable to speak up.   I
had to choose, but I couldn't possibly say it.
What is common is common, but
what is in one's heart, one
cannot express, cannot fully articulate.
So, those things that were mine and I could
n't say out loud, during that period,
Yen confided in the teacher.
Because in the past, the teacher had few Buddhist followers,
so when Yen set up a meditation center
for practice, there were many things that came up, and during
her own practice, she had
to consult the teacher on many matters.
Yen also expressed her wish, saying, "My
dear teacher, I only wish there was
someone who could listen to everything
I have, all the questions in
my heart. I could tell them everything and have
all the things in
my heart resolved."  Then the teacher said
I could tell him everything.
Therefore, when I was able to tell my teacher everything that was
bothering me, everything
that was on my mind, I felt that
I wasn't hiding anything in this life
, and I was very happy.  So when it came time for Yen to
speak to the public, Yen said to them, "
Tell me everything, don't
hide anything."  Because Yen is
someone who feels happy when she can
express herself fully and accept
constructive criticism from the
listener.  That's it, I'm very happy, and I haven't
lied about anything.  It means
feeling alive, feeling
comfortable, free from deception, hidden secrets
, and tormented by anything,
even small, unintentional mistakes.
I could say that too.  Then,
when we practice diligently and avoid making
mistakes, there must be
people who point it out, and we must be able to speak out, to
sincerely and wholeheartedly understand.  Therefore, the practice of
repentance in Buddhism is
extremely valuable.  Because I can now openly express
what belongs to me, I no longer cling to it or try to hold on to
it.  That's what
Yen longs for.  As for Yen, she doesn't know
how everyone else feels, but she hopes that we, the general public, will
establish this committee: the
executive committee, the information committee, and the
culinary committee, so that you all have colleagues to work together
within them.  You can
express your heart and soul in your
work, but that doesn't even mention your personal feelings.  In
the workplace, by speaking your mind,
you've already experienced peace and
happiness. The public can see how
happy you are when you speak your mind. For example,
in a culinary team
, in the way things are done,
we can speak our minds about everything. We should
learn from this experience without fear of
anyone.  It's wonderful and joyful when everyone is treated equally like this
.  Living
together allows us to be close and share
many things.  Yen hopes that all
department heads will prioritize
their own people as close associates.  To be
close, you need to be equal.  Don't
impose your will on others, oppress them, or bully them; instead, treat
everyone equally.  He listens to me, and I
listen to him.  You listen to me, and I listen to you.
Sharing will solve everything.  We truly experience
moments of inner peace
, with no trace of darkness or obscurity.  Very
happy.  I also hope that we all can
have many close friends.
This question is one that concerns
us Buddhists.
The question is handwritten.
Consider whether your act of clasping your hands in greeting might cause
harm to others.  As for the
older Buddhists, we already understand all of that
.  So, Yen would like to say this to address the
concerns of new Buddhists like us, who may sometimes have
.
When I go to the temple and meet Buddhists, I greet them with a smile.
I have a habit of
clasping my hands and slightly bowing my head
to greet anyone I meet.  For me, this is
a way of saying hello.  I use this greeting as a
constant reminder when
interacting with others, so that I can be
humble, avoid arrogance, and show respect
.  But I've heard many people say that
doing so causes people to lose
merit.  I've noticed that people in Thailand and some
other countries greet each other that way
.  I hope you can teach me, teacher.  The
teacher has already taught this, and now Yen is sharing it
again with those who don't know.
The factor that causes our minds to become
corrupted, that
leads us to ruin, is the factor
within our own minds.  This same mindset
originates from some non-Buddhist practitioners who, despite practicing
Buddhism, harbor feelings of envy.  When the
monks receive people bowing and paying their
respects, they say, "This person hasn't cultivated their spiritual practice yet,
and receiving such respects will only bring them
misfortune and death."  That means, after the monks have
finished speaking, the lay Buddhists then follow suit and
speak up to the lay Buddhists.  That's what
Yen actually heard from people
outside the faith and from people
within the faith who, out of arrogance, claimed that others could
n't practice spiritual cultivation.
It's my job to greet someone, but whether they
accept or not is up to them.  Whether
someone succeeds or fails depends on their mindset,
not on what they possess.   If I
greet someone in this way, if I show
respect, then blessings will
arise for me from the very thought of showing respect.
The very act of showing respect and gratitude
brings blessings.  When we greet
someone respectfully, whether they accept our greeting or
not is what truly matters.  Because it
resides in people's hearts.
Therefore, people never suffer
misfortune because their hearts are not
compelled to greet me.  I deserve to be
greeted; it's
unacceptable not to greet me
.
The monks, however, asked why we should pay homage to the
Three Jewels to gain merit.  My teachers taught me that
because the Triple Gem includes the
Buddha, the
Dharma, and enlightened monks who have attained enlightenment
.
When we approach a monk to
pay our respects and greet them, that is an act of
reverence towards the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha).  But
people don't recognize this monk in their hearts.
But people still remind me that I
should greet my teachers when I meet them.  That's just a reminder so I
know, but they won't actually accept
it.  There are also people who feel offended, saying that when
the monks see a lack of
respect, they remind them, "Hey, when you
meet us, you should clasp your hands together in
greeting."
That's just a friendly reminder, because in
reality, the teachers don't accept it, right?
If the teachers were the ones receiving the message, they would
n't have been arrogant enough to mention it.
That's right, I deserve to be greeted. If you don't greet
me, you'll only end up in ruin. I hope you
end up in ruin.
Then that person would
n't have been reminded, but the person who reminded them did so
because they didn't yet understand the Dharma
.  If it's for one's own benefit, then no
one will ever accept a greeting in return.
I just say hello, but they don't actually
accept it.  All the audience members saw that
whenever the teacher gave a sermon, they had seen a
Buddha statue.
The teacher sits in the front, or it's the
same if all the guests sit in the front.
We're all focused on the ceremony, aren't we?  No one will
take it.  It's comforting when we offer our respects to the
Dharma teacher, and he also beats us.  But
since the Buddha was present, sitting right
there, everyone bowed to him,
so the teacher also changed his mind and bowed to the
Buddha; we all bowed to the Buddha, it was the same,
no different.  Then the teacher's heart must be
even greater because
that humility is even greater.  Therefore, many people who don't
know better just say they like it when
others bow down and worship them all day long.  It's not like
people's hearts can accept it, you know.  Therefore,
when we Buddhists
bow to each other in greeting, or when we
ask, "Where are you going, sister?" or "What are you doing?",
that is an expression of respect towards one another.  From
this respectful heart,
blessings will flow forth for us.  Therefore,
greeting each other doesn't necessarily bring bad luck.  Greeting
each other brings more blessings because of our
respectful attitude.  And because the other person saw
that, they also developed a joyful heart
.  That's just how we Buddhists are.  When
people from all walks of life come to the temple
, if we bow our heads and greet them,
they will feel joyful.  So, they are
blessed, and I am also
blessed.  The act of doing something virtuous
brings joy to others.  So
this is increasing your blessings, not
decreasing them.  Therefore, as Buddhists, we
should greet each other with clasped hands if we are
not doing anything with our hands and feet
.  But when we do it,
we stop.  And when we meet
and we can't clasp our hands together,
let's just bow our heads and smile, okay?  So that
both of us can feel
joy.  As for monks, even those who have just been
ordained and are novices, we
must all treat them with respect.  Because this reverence encompasses
both the monks and the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha).  As
representatives of the Three Jewels, we are blessed,
but when communicating and
greeting at the temple, there is a
certain custom or etiquette.  In the temple, we
communicate and greet each other by clasping our
hands together.  But in real life, we shake hands.
Communicate by shaking hands.  Or, in some
places abroad, they hug and kiss.  Communication
is like hugging, kissing, and patting.  That's intimacy.
But mine is a
greeting with clasped hands.
Next question.  This is a question
many people
have
heard, but it's difficult to
answer it by simply saying, "
Let's just take it slowly
."  Why the rush to become a monk?  Just keep practicing
gradually and you will reach your destination.  There.  So, is
there anyone here who has been told by someone else to
just take it slow and become a monk?  Is that
so?  There are many.
Dear Sister Pham Thi Yen, in our Buddhist group, a
sister told us to take our time practicing, that there's
no need to rush.  Excuse me, ma'am,
is what she said true?
The public says that's right, isn't it?   That's
also true.
But it's only a matter of timing; it depends
on which circumstances make it right and
which don't.  So here
we must practice this: gradually, adapt to circumstances, and quickly before it's too
late.
Do we often use those words in Buddhist teachings?  Even spiritual practice should be done
gradually; there's no need to rush.
Practice according to circumstances.  Hurry up and practice meditation
, or it will be too late; hurry up before it's too late.
Those three words are essential in our spiritual practice
.
So, when things get too tense, we
have to tell them to take it easy.
When we're
too lazy, we just say, "Oh well, let's just leave it to
fate."   If circumstances allow, one should practice virtue; there's no need to
rush.
But what does "depending on circumstances" mean, what does "from" mean
, and how does one cultivate quickly?
We need to clearly define it so that
we know how to apply it.
If we apply the principle of gradual practice to everything
,
in every situation, we should
practice it gradually.  If you practice self-cultivation gradually, the karmic consequences will
also gradually disappear
.  If you practice self-cultivation gradually, the karmic consequences will only be cleansed
gradually.
But I
don't like the idea of ​​karma gradually settling down.  The idea is to practice gradually and still
eliminate karmic obstacles.
Therefore, practicing gradually cannot
quickly eliminate karmic obstacles.
There.  So,
we should immediately rule out this gradual approach to spiritual practice, right?  The reason for eliminating this immediately
is that if we continue to practice slowly,
our karmic obstacles will not be
eliminated.  So what kind of practice should we follow?
Tu mau.   The
color is a bit slow.  But the rhyme scheme, in essence,
encompasses both rhetorical devices and rhetorical
devices that are convenient to use.
The color scheme must encompass both the words and the
circumstances.  For example, if
someone asks to
observe the Eight Precepts for 20 days a month,
we might say, "Let's take it slow;
that kind of practice isn't feasible."
If a husband and wife are at home and he wants to leave for 1
month and 20 days to become a monk to pray for their son, it will cause
family discord, so take it slowly.
This involves a sense of fate.  That means
we have to observe our own circumstances
, and with the utmost diligence, we can
cultivate what we can achieve.  So,
in this place where you should practice diligently before it's too late, is there
also a place where you can practice slowly?  Is there such a thing as practicing according to circumstances?
So,
first of all, we have to choose our destiny
.  My destiny is that
I currently have this bond, this bond,
this bond, this bond.  So
now, the maximum we can achieve is to cultivate quickly.
See, it was a place of destiny from the very beginning.
Right?  Observe your own circumstances and
see how much effort you can
put into cultivating them
in order to eliminate your negative karma
.
Hurry up and practice diligently before it's too late, because only then will
we reach the state of "following the flow of destiny."
First, you have to assess the situation and see
how much effort you can put in to avoid becoming
complacent.
No delays or procrastination.  We do
our best in that situation where fate dictates it.   For
example, if this family has just given birth to a
baby who has just started breastfeeding, we should come
here and see when we can practice meditation.
Just listening to Dharma teachings, right?  And we
should diligently listen to the Dharma in order to contemplate and apply it
in our daily lives.  When we were
very young, still tiny babies.  Then we
have children in first and second grade, so we need to consider how much
time we can allocate for our
family and how much time we
can dedicate to them as much as possible.
That still falls under the category of quick spiritual cultivation.  What is the color
compared to?  Compared to myself.  After choosing the
right karmic connection, select the path to enlightenment that will allow you to progress faster than others
.
If we cannot understand
our own karmic connections, if we cannot
initiate this rapid practice, then we will become
lazy and we will fail.  I have to do
this, I have to do that, I have to do that.
So I'll end up becoming a slow, sluggish person,
not someone who progresses gradually.  That's it, they practice meditation slowly and
deliberately, but everything else happens quickly and easily.
There.  As for this gradual practice, it
depends on our circumstances, so it will be a
gradual process.  That means it aligns with
my destiny, so it's a gradual process.  But
if we can't control
our karmic connections, we have a tiny child at home, an
old mother, and we abandon one of them, go away for a
month and 20 days to do volunteer work, and then come back and
argue and fight, causing chaos at home
.
This case is
not allowed, right?  He needs to take things
slowly, he needs to find the right person, he can't be
like this.  Okay.  Therefore, when we
go through these three things in our practice, before it's too late,
it must include the practice of mindfulness, the practice of observing the karmic connections
.  I've heard people
say that practicing this way leads to enlightenment very quickly.
So I decided to become a monk.  Impossible.
When we are in a certain situation, we will be within that situation, and that
is the path to progress, that
is the path to cultivation, whether we progress quickly or slowly.  May
we all become more diligent in our practice.   When
we practice Buddhism, people ask us, "Why are you practicing Buddhism and
abandoning your home and possessions? Why are you practicing Buddhism and giving
up everything?"  You're practicing Buddhism according to fate,
right?  I'm cultivating myself gradually.   To be
honest,
I don't have anything that I can't take my time with
.  For example, I have the strength to move,
and I can anchor
each step I take.  I'm still taking things one step at a time,
right?  I'm not going to jump one way, then another, then another
.  That means it's still a slow pace compared to my time.
I can still do it.  So it's still within
my capabilities.  I'm still calling slowly.  If
it's beyond my capabilities, I'll run for
a while and then fall again.  He fell, then
ran and fell again.  But here I am still able to
do it smoothly and very
well.  And this gradual process of mine, as
circumstances change, actually
increases.  Increase.  That's a kind of late-blooming fast-paced cultivation, you know
.  So when someone asks, "Are you
diligently practicing the Dharma?"  I feel like life is
moving too fast already.  I need to practice meditation quickly before it's too late
.  So, what about your family? How can
you practice Buddhism like that?  I am practicing according to circumstances.
So how could you possibly
quit that job when your family was in such a difficult situation?  I'm practicing self-cultivation
gradually.  Yes.
See, it still includes everything, nothing is
missing.  I'm speaking the absolute
truth, right?  It's honest and
beneficial!  Therefore, our practice is
very good.  And then someone told me that if she
told me to take my time practicing Buddhism, I should say, "Yes, I'm
following my
family's circumstances, and I'm practicing very slowly."
Sometimes, our Buddhists only see that someone is
diligent in their practice
, without knowing anything about their family or
their circumstances.  Then you're already spreading rumors before anything has even happened
.  Oh my goodness, give up all your
housework and become a monk!  Oh, I
also have a sister who's a head of department.   I'll
keep your name a secret and
become a nun.  This is just within the Buddhist community
.  Yen hasn't mentioned it today.  Those who are
fortunate enough should examine their own hearts.  She
goes to work, she works from home, and then she
goes to the temple to work.  But then they go out and
say that people are neglecting their own
household chores.  So, while people inside
their homes don't even know, you're already
crying on their behalf. They haven't complained yet
, their husbands haven't complained,
their children haven't complained, their household chores haven't been
discussed, not even the pigs have squealed or the babies have cried, and you're
already crying for them,
right?  She doesn't know anything, yet she's acting as a
professional mourner for others, while simultaneously creating
controversy.  That's envy, the
seed of the mind. Before anything even happens, you're already saying
that someone is envious. There's something you
don't know: that's envy stemming from ignorance.
You don't know that it's clumsy envy. If
you're going to be envious, you should ask. If you do that,
your husband will say, "No, you have to ask
them." If you say no, what about your child?
They'll say, "It can be resolved," or "Oh,
that's great, right?"
You should say, "That's your house, you go like that." Your
husband... I truly support you. Your husband
is wonderful.  I only support my
truly wonderful child.  Can I express my
admiration?  Instead,
without knowing anything, I've already said that
such a monastic life, such greedy monastic life, means that
I don't even know what my family and home are like in there
.  See?  Therefore,
we must ask and understand clearly what
we understand. We must understand clearly what the other person is saying, "
Sister, in the three aspects of dependent origination within
your family, have you been able to practice yet?"  Did you practice Buddhism
gradually?  Shouldn't you start practicing Buddhism quickly before it's too late?
And I have practiced all three of those things.  That's all, you can rest
assured.   The
next question is...
This question is for young people to ponder,
while older generations will reflect on it.  The
older generation has already experienced it, while the younger generation can
learn from it.  This sentence is about love, and when it
comes to love, both young and old
want to hear it,
not just the younger generation.
Nick of Thuong Duong Duong Thuong:
How can I find the feeling of love again?
Do you want to rediscover the feeling of being in love?   Even
this monk had to
rediscover the feeling of love.
If we can't find
this feeling of love, then we can't love all
living beings.
It must love all living beings; there must still
be some kind of love involved.
But this is love in real life.  So, what
Yen wants is for everyone to have the
knowledge to help
their children and the next generation, which they
really need.  This is
just one question Yen asked.
These questions are frequent and
recurring.
I receive messages like this every single day.
I've lost the feeling of love.
Miss, how can I rediscover the
feeling of love?  How can you
forget someone after a breakup?   That's tough
.  There are many women here who have left their
husbands, you know.  I love my husband so much!
So today, Yen will guide
everyone to rediscover their true selves when in love.
Remember, old man, remember what you were like when you were in love
.
The first thing we experience in love
is affection.   I
already have feelings for him.  To love someone, we
must have feelings for them.
When we interact
with someone through certain circumstances,
what nourishes and strengthens that feeling?
That's a
delusion.   That means
we'll remember it forever.  It's a
delusion, meaning it keeps dwelling on what it feels
emotionally attached to.  For example, if you meet someone today and
feel a connection, tomorrow
you'll keep thinking about that image, constantly remembering it – that
's delusion.
After the daydreaming phase is over, the
next step is imagination.
For example, when you hear something
like that, it triggers a fantasy about you, and
you imagine that person, that
you'll be with them, that you'll
go out with them, that you'll hang out with them.
That means daydreaming.   Okay
?  It started as a delusion,
then progressed to imagination.  Is that truly the
heart of my lover?  Right?   That's
absolutely correct.
After imagining, the next level
is idolization.
That means this person is the best.  This "best" image
arises from our imagination of the
person.   It's not worth
paying too much respect.  For example,
imagine you drop a handkerchief, someone picks it up, you
look into each other's eyes, and sparks of romance fly.
So I went home and daydreamed,
imagining those sweet words from back then
, meaning I only remembered them for that moment,
and then I imagined that
I would get to go there.  Then
our eyes will meet here, then we'll meet
there.  Then the action just went on smoothly like
this, delivering it.
So, does that mean they've become idols?
I transformed that person into someone
with a single, 100% identical personality
to the one I first perceived.
Therefore, what started as a feeling is inflated through
delusion, and through delusion born from imagination, it
becomes an idol.  That's what we call
ignorance.  Failing to see reality.
So the next step is that,
because
people at this age
tend to express positive things when communicating, it's
not like that, and it's because I've already
nurtured my own illusions, my imagination, my
idols.  Once you've idolized someone, you'll
never see their flaws
again.  Just seeing the beauty in a place can
transform an ugly one into something beautiful.
That's why the elders often say, "If you
love each other, you can straighten out
anything that's mismatched,"
right?  I also forgot that sentence, didn't I?   If
two people truly love each other, they'll even adjust a misaligned joint to make it straight
.  That means
I find everything about this person
amazing.
That's very good.  From what
I heard people say, for example, they
looked here like Yen just said this.  People
are walking by like this, and if they accidentally
look at me, I'll say, "Look, you're looking at
me again."
Back to
that delusion.  And so it went, one day fantasizing, the next day imagining, and
imagining, "What if tomorrow I get thirsty and
someone gives me some water to drink?"
He's showing interest in me again.
Then I thought about how, in the future, when I have more than enough, they'll
take care of me in this way and that way.
Therefore, that's delusion and fantasy
turning into
unrequited love.
After idolizing someone, comes unrequited love.
This process of unrequited love is very
long.  That means when you're in love, you pay attention
to the other person; that's love.  Before the two fall in
love, unrequited love
occurs first.
See?  Therefore, I have
unrequited love.  Because of unrequited love,
I spend my days and nights daydreaming.   I'm
so in love that I just keep daydreaming.  Sometimes, it's
just about sending
a text message and getting a reply.  In real
life, people often say things like, "You
look so goofy, like someone who's just fallen in love."
So, that means all those actions changed
in a strange way,
right?  Suddenly, I felt carefree and
joyful, and everything I saw seemed appealing.   And
then I even sang alone
without realizing that I was suffering from
delusions, from
fantasizing about
idols and having unrequited love,
without recognizing that my illness
was
delusional. This delusion was incredibly controlling
because I kept imagining things
day after day, building up those fantasies,
until I fell in love.
Once they fell in love, the truth was revealed.
For example, today this guy
broke our date.  But that missed appointment was only
one, just a moment ago.
But in the depths of delusion,
imagination, and idolization,
this guy is too small, too
insignificant, without considering the cause or
anything else.  Mai just needs an apology and she'll pretend
this never happened.  And we
keep fantasizing about that apology
.  I didn't
consider whether the apology was sincere or
not.  No further consideration needed.  Saying these words is
so gentle, so sweet,
so loving, and makes you forget someone's mistakes
.  Therefore, considering the quantity and
rhythm of my thoughts, my thinking
is that I have too much of what I love
and too little of what I hate.  Therefore, we can
no longer discern the truth about the other
party.  People have what are called
84,000 different mental states.  I only love the
initial feeling and I transform
all
83,999 of those feelings into one
feeling that makes me love life.  That means
we purify it according to
our imagination.  So, I purified all of that
according to
my dreamy imagination.  That's why I was so infatuated
with a person, with a love.
So when there are people who treat
you very badly, you can't let go of them.
Just by listening to this person,
Yen knew that
from the very first moment, this person had harbored
too many delusions, too much imagination,
too many idols, living in dreams
and illusions.  This person suffers from delusional disorder and
lacks sanity, so even
when mistreated, they cannot let go
.
There.  Because there's
too much unrequited love in my imagination.
That's because my love for them is
unrequited.  But actually, it's not that
I love the person, but that I love
the idea I've created in my own imagination.
But the other person is the one at fault.
I'm not accepting it.  So,
what exactly do I love?
Love your ignorance.
I can't recognize it anymore, I can't
recognize what the truth is.
Therefore, we live our whole lives in
that fantasy, unable to recognize the truth.   They
can't see the truth.
Sometimes it's just a simple first encounter,
a clear, pleasant voice that makes you
feel comfortable.  I immediately judged
this person to be gentle and kind, and to put it nicely, they possessed
all the qualities of a dreamer.  We have so many things to do, but we
forget that in daily life
we ​​have to observe each other down to the smallest detail.
We correct each other, pointing out what's
wrong and what's not right, and as we keep
correcting each other, we forget about that crucial
element.  That's the kind of situation where you can't physically confront someone
.  There are many people who
imagine things like, for example, about money. They see
someone who spends a lot of money today, and
because they
also like money, they imagine
that person to be rich. But when
they find out later, it turns out they've been borrowing money all along.
So, we
need to re-evaluate ourselves, because our
initial feelings only leave
us with that impression.  This person's
actions are considered
polite and acceptable in a social setting;
further investigation is needed.  Let's not let
ourselves have too many unrealistic expectations about
something, like, yes, about communication right from the
start.
There.  That's why,
when we have
too many illusions, too many idols, and
pour all our emotions into
one person, when things fall apart, we no longer have
feelings for anyone else.
Because when those people break up, even if the
guy is abusive, goes out with other women, or leaves them,
they don't live with the
present reality of being treated
badly.  But people are still living with
their old illusions.
So, why did the love I had for me abandon
me?  Why is that?  Why
did that person change?  Forgetting
the present, refusing to accept the present.
Because they don't accept the present, they
can't develop new feelings for
other people.  Chuan Yen often
advises her friends like this.
When the weaker party leaves,
we must identify the characteristics
between the two that make it impossible for them to be together, to be a
couple.
If we look at things clearly, things will be much
easier.   I could
n't accept those things happening to me.  What if he
loves me but loves someone else?  If you're
smart, you should leave him first if
you have that kind of personality, instead of thinking about the
days when he fed you, washed your hair, took you out,
carried you around, and did all sorts of things for you
.  That pertains to an
action and a gesture.  And this
belongs to this action, this gesture,
and this is not confused with that.  He
would have acted that way if he were in love with me at that time.
And in that, he was
unfaithful in love, he didn't keep his
promises in love.  This led to a
breakup.  And that's the kind of destiny he's destined to have
.  Therefore, he loves whoever he wants, and he does the same
.  I'm so lucky to have quit.
Because we can't change someone's karma
.  People are governed by karma
that they cannot change.  So,
being able to give it up is a blessing.
It's a blessing that people leave you; otherwise,
you would have to endure this forever.
So, that means you can't go back to the point where you
can't calm your mind
down.  Then, after I've moved on from my
previous relationship,
I start seeing the other person through
their good deeds, and
naturally, I develop feelings for them
. There's nothing else to it.  So, when something good happens, we develop a
positive feeling towards it.  When dealing with bad situations, if we
clearly distinguish between right and wrong, we can avoid
hating people, and still maintain
normal respect for them.  If that's just how they are and
we're not compatible, then so be it.
See?  That's right, I'm very
gentle.  And
for those who already have children, Yen
also said this: in our relationship,
it's all about love.
Wherever we direct our focus, that's where it will flourish.
If we focus on loving our children,
caring for them, and admiring
their adorable qualities,
our feelings will naturally develop towards
them.   It's
better than someone who gives
too much to her husband and then sees her child
suffer, thinking, 'Your mother is just like your father
.'  Oh no, I've lost my husband and my child too.
Do you understand?   If
you love your child, you think you
should correct their mistakes and help them improve. If they make
mistakes today, they'll be
perfect tomorrow, and naturally, you'll find them
adorable.  There.
But because I loved that guy so much, all I could
think about was
him.  When love ends and
then it's lost, resentment often arises.
Ay Yen has a younger sibling in South Korea who is the
same.   His
wife cheated on him, and he was
sick, so it took him a long time to
have a child after undergoing in-vitro fertilization.
Now he hates the child, saying things like, "
Auntie, that kid will soon be just like
his mother, not any better
."  And you can too.
What kind of children and grandchildren
you raise depends on how you raise them.  Look for
any flaws in your child.  I take care of myself.  And each
transformation is like
looking at a tree that you've planted.
Does it make me happy that it grows a new leaf every day?   Are
you happy when you get to bud?   Are
we happy when the flowers bloom and bear fruit?   When
I look at my child, see what's
wrong with them, and take care of their
metabolic processes, I feel happy.  Yen
also has the same habit with
her child.  When I remind them of something
and they improve the next time, it's very rewarding.  I'm
very happy.  So why not find
joy there, instead of placing it in a
place where others are causing you suffering?
How can you possibly find joy in that?
Right?  Therefore, we
should focus our minds on the place where it can
receive.  If it's not accepted, then
don't put it there.  So, if you want to
recapture the feeling of love, you need to
let go of fantasies, illusions,
idolizations, and unrequited love.
Recognize the truth, what is
admirable and valuable, what will bring you
happiness, and
develop that instead of fantasizing about
what others
have.  Don't overreact, it's really hard for me to
let go.  And if you really want to forget someone,
you have to become younger.
What was the reason I broke up with them?  If the fault lies with
me, I will correct myself so that
my next relationships will be
better.  Correct yourself so you don't get
caught in the same trap.  But if it's their fault, then I
know that our relationship was only meant to last this long
.
No matter how hard you try, it's no use because people have
left you.  I tried my best, did
n't I?  Then it will become clear at that very
moment, right now, that if
I do that, I will
forget that person.  So, if I develop
new feelings, what will I forget?  Forget
the old.  I might develop feelings
for my child, and for many people,
I'll forget the past.  As Buddhists
, how should we live
so that we are not overly engrossed in
any one emotion?
We must contemplate the relationship
between giving and receiving.   If
I have something and I give it to many people,
then by developing this aspect,
I will experience great joy.
As for the other one, I only expect one
person to receive it, and I only
accept it from one person.  When others
don't accept what you give, you will
suffer, and when you can't accept what
others give, you will also suffer.
That's why, in love between two people, and
in everything we do, we must broaden our love
.  Expand your horizons so that if
this relationship doesn't involve you,
you'll have other opportunities to develop your potential.
Young people should cultivate compassion
for all living beings and help them grow,
rather than focusing solely on one person.
When we have children, we tend to focus our
love on them while also loving our parents—in other words,
we are dividing our affections.
Love and responsibility towards parents,
siblings, friends, all
living beings, husband, and children
must be balanced.  So when we lose
this, we already have that other place;
it doesn't shock us, cause us to fall
apart, lose our balance, or lose our equilibrium.
If things continue like this, I'll lose all faith
in life because I've given everything I have
to others.  That's when
I felt completely disheartened and lost all faith in
life.  Feeling lost,
feeling useless.  Because I
only think this one person is allowed.
I'm not accepting it anymore; I feel
useless.  Therefore, live with love, and
spread your love widely.
And should Buddhist disciples harbor delusional
thoughts, fantasies, and idolize the
Buddha?
Because that's what leads to
true happiness, free from the influence of impermanence,
right?  And those other people didn't
have it, so we imagined it to be there,
right?  The human mind is also impermanent.  And
what about my imagination of the Buddha?
He is compassionate.  Therefore, by coming to
Him, we will find happiness.  So, feel
free to imagine, fantasize, and
idolize as much as you like.  Because when we come to
Him, it is the truth.  No matter how many delusions we have, they are
not enough to match
his wisdom compared to our own delusions
.   No matter
how many delusions one has, they are
never enough to satisfy his mind.  And
no matter how much I admire him, I
can never truly admire him
as he was.  No matter
how much we idolize him, it's
nothing like what he had.
And we're idolizing someone who's
so far removed from our ideals, aren't we?  My
imagination of the other person is far from reality.
Well, since we're observing the
Eight Precepts today, we
can stay here a little later.  So, is it
okay for the general public to delay the selection of the Dharma a little
?
The question is about fatigue, depression, and
stress.  This is more common among young people
.  We older generations have already learned to endure hardship
.  Therefore, whatever comes
our way, we are less tired.
We've lived through difficult times
, and we've had to overcome them to
reduce our stress levels.  We are
more receptive to and open to the truth
.  As for the younger generation, they are often too
spoiled, living passively and relying
heavily on the care, attention, and
nurturing of their parents and grandparents.  Therefore,
when faced with such situations, children may
feel tired, depressed, and
stressed.  For example,
in the past, families with five or six
siblings didn't even have enough to eat,
we worked tirelessly, and
we walked to school, right?  We
walked, stayed up late, woke up early, and studied by the light of an
oil lamp.  There was no desk to study at home,
only a bed that I crawled out of to sleep and
study at the same time.  Therefore, we have overcome
all the difficult and challenging circumstances
.  Therefore, when something comes
our way, we don't get stressed,
we aren't overwhelmed by it, and
so we don't get
tired.  Young people these days are very prone to
fatigue and stress, which can lead to
depression.
When children get everything they
want, and things don't go their way, they become
stressed, they
overthink, they struggle, they
complain, they make
demands, which causes them to wait
anxiously, and this stress
leads to fatigue and depression.  So,
in my question, I'm saying, "Teacher, I feel very
tired of this life."  My grandchild
frequently experiences stress and
depression.  My child often withdraws into themselves
and doesn't want to interact with anyone.
This situation has been going on for so long that I've lost all interest in
life.
Excuse me, teacher, what should I do to get out of
this situation?  Do young people
these days really have
enough to eat?   There is
enough to eat.
Furthermore,
in friendships, there's a tendency to compete and show off.
They always want to be like everyone else, trying to keep up with their friends
.  For example, seeing that your friend is
smarter than you, and you're not as smart
, can lead to self-inflicted
frustration and
resentment towards their success.
Envy leads to stress,
stress leads to fatigue, and fatigue leads to
depression.  When you're that tired, you
don't want to interact anymore.  I don't want to
interact with anyone.  That's how it is with
clothes too.  For example, now we
all get to hang out together like
this.  But those who have new dresses and
those who don't naturally
feel inferior.
So, if you feel insecure, you
won't want to go out with me again next time, and then your parents might
ask for money to buy you a new dress.
Without it, they become resentful towards their parents.
So, distancing oneself from parents, lacking the companionship of
friends, isolating oneself from friends—in other words,
creating one's own space.  If I encounter
other people and they don't satisfy
my needs, I feel uncomfortable, so
I withdraw into myself.
So, all that fatigue,
stress, and depression stems from not
knowing our current situation and circumstances
.
Being present means not reflecting on
oneself, not reflecting on
one's abilities, not reflecting on
one's circumstances.  Therefore, we demand things that are beyond
our capabilities, beyond our circumstances
, beyond what our
parents can provide, and that's why
we end up in this situation.  So
now, if you want to get out of
this situation, the
first thing you need to do is
to reflect on yourself, assess
your abilities in your work,
what you can accomplish,
and what you can strive for
in all aspects and
areas.  So, my abilities are
n't necessarily the ones you see out there
.  For example, if you have poor communication skills,
you can improve them
within your family.
In my family, I have to speak
quickly and be lively, greeting my
parents and siblings.  In other words, if I realize my
communication skills are poor,
I'll work on improving them; if
my work performance is
slow, I'll
improve my efficiency with household chores
.  Naturally, in the process of striving for success,
people find joy in their
achievements.
There, we'll get the enthusiasm.
Because whether or not you have the passion to live depends on
your own success.  If I
succeed, I have enthusiasm,
but what do I do if I fail?   I'm bored with being a
leader.
Therefore, everyone should
strive to do things to the best of their ability
that lead to their own success, even if
those things are small.
For example, we could make a
styrofoam box, buy some seeds, sow them, and
nurture the plant until it
grows leaves, then cut the leaves and cook a delicious soup.
Throughout this process, it brings a
great deal of joy and happiness to our hearts.
These are the first seeds
for overcoming depression.
Instead of withdrawing, you will avoid
fatigue and stress.  Because
I experience this joy, this happiness,
when I see myself
succeed.
There.  Then, depending on their own circumstances,
parents should
support their children, helping
them with even the smallest things so that
they can achieve success.  So, back then, when
we sisters were around half the age of
Yen, we
had a certain level of success that
circumstances brought upon us.  For example, a family raising
chickens might have just hatched
about 12 chicks.  My mother had five sisters in the house
, and each of them received two children and one
hundred and twenty of her own.
There.  Did the older women used to be like that
?  There.  Then, within
this single vegetable bed, it was also divided into sections.  Each
person receives a piece.  Let's just take care of
our vegetable patch.  So what's the point of striving?   There is
competition.  Even when my vegetables are growing
well and looking green, I don't want to let them be cut so they can still look
nice.   That
means when we achieve success, our hearts are
filled with joy.  But it's because my students
set their goals too high.
All the chores were forbidden; no
housework whatsoever, no lifting a
finger to do anything.  Therefore,
its success rests solely on its
academic results.  But human capabilities can
decrease.
Parents set the goal for their children to be
good students.
So, if they keep pushing them until the first time they
don't get good grades, they'll become
discouraged, tired, and reluctant to interact with their
distant parents.
That's what parents force their children into—
things that lead to depression, stress,
fatigue, and anxiety.  It's always
worried about whether it will achieve
its goal.  Otherwise, I'd be very worried.   I'm very worried
.  And when it fails,
it just wants to die because it has disappointed its parents,
and it is also disappointed in itself because its
parents nurtured its dream of
success
without recognizing its own capabilities
.  One day, Yen
met two friends who, compared to
their age,
looked like they were in their 30s, even though they
hadn't finished 12th grade yet. They looked like they were
in their 30s; only when you looked
closely did they appear younger, but at first glance, they looked
older.   My
parents are professionals who hire someone to stay at home,
someone who just goes from
one teacher to another, then to yet another, and so on
.  That means it's always
stressful.
And the goal my parents set for me was to
get into this university.  If
this girl fails even one of the exams, she'll feel like committing
suicide.  Because it broke too
many times.
It felt guilty towards its parents, guilty
for all the care and attention
everyone had given it.  It felt guilty,
useless, and wanted to commit suicide.
That's the pressure other people put
on you.  Therefore,
parents should consider
their children's abilities and give them
time to develop a kind and
compassionate heart, helping them reduce stress from an
early age.  When visiting someone's home, you can bring a pet
in, like a dog or a cat, and
feed the cat at mealtime.  So
today, when I asked the cat if it was full or hungry,
my concern immediately reduced my
stress.  That thing doesn't have a destination.
Therefore, you don't have to expect it to always be
like a soldier going into battle.  Keep
moving forward, and you'll surely succeed.  Keep
going, keep going, keep going, until
eventually everything is gone, nothing is left.
Just think about it, everyone.  Therefore,
pushing people beyond their capabilities is
unacceptable.  Therefore, we must identify
our child's abilities, and our
own abilities.  And from
that realization, we gradually moved forward.
I walked alongside my child and
moved forward.  And if you're
old enough now, let's look back at
our own capabilities and
our shortcomings, and let's
move forward little by little.  Don't
look at others and expect to be as good as them
when their abilities are
vastly different from yours.  That's
when I started to feel envious.
That's it, envy—the very act of envy itself is enough to
make you tired.   And then,
from that, a malicious and harmful mindset arises,
making me even more exhausted.  Therefore, we
must always be mindful of
our present moment in order to
develop ourselves.  To overcome
feelings of fatigue, depression, and
stress.  First, let's not let
ourselves get too stressed.  Stress
leads to fatigue, and fatigue leads to
depression.  Therefore, we should just relax and be
content with our current abilities
.
So, this article still has many
questions, and they are very
useful, but because time is running out,
Yen still has one more story to tell, and then, by some
strange twist of fate, the atmosphere changed
.  Do the general public want to hear it?
We often say that we don't
know what possessed
us to do that at the time.
I don't normally do that.  I must have been possessed by some
evil spirit to do
that.
Now I don't know what
message Lich May May is sending.  Now I
don't know what to do, so I'm asking for your help.  I
worked at a store for six months,
but during that time I felt
like someone was following me.  My nephew makes me do so
many things, Auntie.  It makes me feel
tired and cry all the time when there are no customers
.  That means this person is working as a
salesperson for someone else.  His friend is in Saigon,
and the main thing is to get the money from the
store.
I took the money but didn't spend it.
On the way home, by
instinct, I stopped at a bridge where
cars always break down.
At that moment, the child took the money and threw it off the
bridge.   "
I do this every day, but I
always only have 50,000 dong left in my pocket," she said
.
Then the owner checked the security camera footage and
accused the child of stealing money.  But
I didn't know how to explain it, so the
shop owner insisted that my parents pay
this money for me.  Honestly, right now, on
the first day of Tet (Lunar New Year), my child is still lying here crying
, feeling neither here nor there.
I don't remember anything now.
No one believed me.  I myself could
n't escape.  At night, the child was in so
much pain and so exhausted that he wanted to commit
suicide.  This is the answer Yen gave you a long time
ago, back on the first day of the Lunar New Year.  But
because there are so many questions, I'm
bringing them here today for the general public to
learn from.
Throughout her question, it's clear
she didn't work at just one store, but
at multiple stores, and that
she unconsciously took the money
and then threw it away unconsciously as well
.   Only
after throwing the money away did I realize I had taken
it and thrown it away.  It's always the same
.
Well, Yen has already explained that to me
.  So this is karma.
Upon hearing about this karma, let
us all repent and be vigilant.
This money was taken
from the family.
This money was taken from someone else
and it has brought me a bad reputation.  I'm being
slandered because in a
past life I did a lot of things that
encouraged others to steal money,
and now my child is being
encouraged by a friend to come home and steal money.
Encouraging others to steal money
to
buy and sell goods or engage in activities that yield
little benefit.  Therefore, that money is called
worthless money.  That's it,
money thrown away, not used.  For
example, if I have two friends
here, one who's good at taking money and the other who's good at stealing money,
then Yen would elaborate on that.  For example,
I already have this outfit, and then I
see my friend constantly
inviting me to go shopping to buy more.   They
just want to travel, but they
don't have the skills to do so
much.  But for the sake of friendship, why should you let your friend
compete with you?  Trying to keep up with me.
Those coins still have
many other expenses to cover in the family
.
Spending money on clothes,
shoes, or makeup that
you buy only once and then
throw away is
wasted money
.  Inciting others to steal money—that
's a clear sign of his character.  But this
is about encouraging others to take money, meaning using
that money improperly and not
bringing any benefit to those who have it.
What does the money in the house belong to?  If you're
still living with your parents, what belongs to them and
what does it belong to someone else?  brothers.  And within a
family, it must belong to the wife, the husband, the
children, and also the parents.  I still have to be
filial.  But if we encourage
others to waste that money
pointlessly, then now, both
that person and we will suffer the consequences of throwing
that money away without any
benefit to ourselves.  But the
most prominent aspect of this karma is these two
minor karmic connections.  The greatest cause of all
is the cause of wrong views.
So, I'm cursed with bad karma; I don't know
why I threw the money away, and now others
think I'm a thief.
Now there are some people who, following my lead, are starting to
stir things up a bit.  Using
that money to buy things to burn for
frivolous rituals and prayers is considered
heresy and a waste of money.
If you take money from someone and it
doesn't bring you any results,
then karma will still cause you to
take the money without any positive outcome,
only bringing you suffering.  That
's because the karma of holding wrong views is abundant.  For example, you could
say, "Bring
this money here to do this, and you
'll get that in return."  But
the person doing it hasn't seen the benefits yet
, hasn't recognized the potential advantages.  That's
why this karma compels me to keep
throwing that money away.  I
received nothing, yet I am criticized,
resented, and suffer.  Because
people have to work very hard to earn
money.  Yet they encourage people to do
wrong things, wasting money
pointlessly, without bringing any results or
benefits to them.  So,
if you're going to be criticized by others,
then you have to suffer the consequences
.  Therefore, in cases
like this, one must repent for the karma accumulated in past lives, which stems
from wrongdoings, misleading
others, wasting money, and failing to bring
benefit to people.  Today, I'm suffering from bad
karma because my actions have caused me to lose
money.  As for this karma, it's truly as if some
evil spirit is at work. The person who is
told to take this and offer this sacrifice
will, for example,
have a happy marriage.  There, if
you take this, you'll be
able to pray for the souls of the deceased.  If you take
this money, you'll get this.  Since
they couldn't have it, now they're seeking
revenge.
There.  So, we have to practice self-
cultivation, repent, and then make offerings to accumulate merit and
dedicate it to others.  Only by repaying what
others have lost because of me can I
transform this karma.  It was the
work of evil spirits.  So sometimes, when
we are unconscious about
something, after we regain our senses, we
examine what this unconsciousness is, try to
understand the karmic cause of
this unconsciousness, and find a way to
practice to transform this karmic cause
.  That was still being led astray by evil spirits.
That's why I do these things very
unconsciously.  Lack of self-control, lack of awareness,
inability to think clearly.  That's why I ended up
like this.  It's now
9:20, so it's getting late.   It's
probably too late now to choose a suitable
method.  The teacher has already explained this Dharma lesson
very thoroughly.  Let's take a look at the website of
Ba Vang Pagoda.
But in this sermon, Yen
mentioned to the congregation a part,
which is the part of
that celestial maiden.
People made a vow to help the previous
incarnations of the Buddha.
The story the teacher told
was about Bodhisattva Suvana removing
toxins from his body, which
helped Bodhisattva Sumana to
fulfill his sincere vow.
This vow benefits
both the Bodhisattva and the parents.
That's a nun, but the part in this article is a
broader analysis by the teacher, so that
part isn't in the scriptures.  So
when the Goddess made
that vow...  For countless
lifetimes, I have loved only one person
—
my child.   That
means that
he, the Bodhisattva, the one who is one of the celestial beings, is the
real one.
Therefore, we must bring out the
genuine essence of our hearts before we can
make a vow.
I made this vow for
my child.  May the Bodhisattva Xu Vana be
able to expel that poison from his
body.
That's my genuine intention.
Then, Bodhisattva Sumala
Suvama
vowed that
if he
truly cared for his parents and cultivated compassion, the
poison would be released.
There.  And from that sincere vow,
coupled with the
king's equally sincere promise to take care of the royal family.  If
Bodhisattva Sum were to relinquish his physical body, he would
support the parents of the two blind ascetics.  That's why, because of
all those sincere prayers, they were
able to change their karma and gain enlightenment
.
Therefore, as
Buddhists, we must
discover our true selves
through dedication
so that we can benefit
those around us and
ourselves.  If we lack
sincerity and genuine merit, then
our vows cannot be sincere
.
Therefore, in this
place of practice, we wholeheartedly
rely on the great Sangha.
Let's see if we've truly found refuge
.  Let's see if, by
supporting, diligently listening to the Dharma,
contemplating, reflecting, and showing
reverence, we can be said to be wholeheartedly
relying on the Sangha.
And within the monastic community, we
rely on Yen, while in the club,
there are many people who rely
on the Dharma and guidance.
The guiding principles of the Dharma.  But
occasionally, instances of arbitrariness can still be found
.
The act of arbitrarily changing what has already been
stipulated.
In other words, we rely on the masses,
so whatever is decided is
decided by the masses.  And Yen was simply the
one who brought things together, meaning she was the one who
discussed everything among them, and Yen was just the one who made the
decision.  But they themselves
can change the rules that have been
established for the public.
There, I myself changed what had already
been stipulated.  Therefore,
when we encounter such situations, it is difficult for us to truly
grasp
our genuine intentions and dedicate those aspirations to them
.  That's very difficult.
Because it doesn't really exist.
It doesn't really exist.  My son, who is wholeheartedly devoted to
Yen, is only giving this as an example.
The vow to rely
on the teacher was made when he had his brothers,
Teacher Thai Cang and Teacher Giac Lam, by his side.   At
that time, the teachers had work to do, and
they would call Yen and ask her to
do this or that
for them.  The bird's nest is still white.  The
disciple should ask the master for permission, then the master should ask the disciple for permission, and then the disciple should
go to his master.  Then, if
my master agrees, he can tell us what
we can help with.  That's
why teachers often fail the first one, two, or three times, but
later it becomes a habit.
The teachers always have to report everything to their master first.
Whenever they called Yen, the teachers would always say they were
referring to Teacher Thai Minh and
asking for the girls to come and help.  The teacher said, "Yes, sir."
The teacher has already asked for permission.  Then,
whatever we need,
we sisters in the Buddhist club will tell each other.  That means
we have to take care of ourselves.  If I ever encounter
a problem and want to help someone, I still
have this vow to help them,
right?  That's the basis we have to build upon
.  And the same goes for the Buddhist community
.  Previously, when Yen had
many responsibilities, she
had to register with the committee. For example,
before, anyone with work to do would
register with Ms. Mai, or if Yen had something to do,
she would call Ms. Mai, and the committee would arrange
a time for Yen to allocate,
and the committee would arrange the schedule themselves, deciding which house to visit
first and which to visit later, so that Yen could rely
on the community and harmonize with them
without being completely self-centered.   At
that time, Yen said that she would take refuge
in the great Sangha and in the
community.
That statement is only truly real if it exists within me;
otherwise, it would be the worst thing I've ever heard, because in
reality, during the process of spiritual practice, the
ego can arise very quickly if one
doesn't become aware of it.
Once I've accomplished something, I just
think about myself.  Therefore, sometimes we forget that
we have teachers above us and friends beside us.  Forget it,
if we don't have a
guide, meaning there's no one above or beside us to
rely on, we'll only
have ghosts to lead us.  With my vow,
I have nowhere to go.  Because my heart is
sincere, I rely on the
community, I am in harmony with the community, I
listen, and I know how to correct my mistakes.  I pray that
all the spirits here may be
able to let go of their resentments and hatred, so that others may be able to let go
.  If I have no one to rely on, and
others rely on me and listen to me, then they will
listen to me if I am not
honest.  See that, everyone?  Therefore,
the value in this sutra, which
we Buddhists can apply, is that we
must have genuine practices
.  Only when you make a
vow of dedication with genuine sincerity will it have value.
If we lack
genuine goodness and sincerity, we cannot make
vows to benefit all sentient beings
.  Our aspiration is not to
benefit sentient beings.  Therefore, for those who
practice this, there is one thing we must be
consistent about.  Firstly, relying
on the Three
Jewels requires the presence of a monk to guide
the way.  So, above you is the teacher, but
what is beside you?   Fellow
Daoist.   Only
there can one find harmony among family members and harmony in practicing the precepts
together.  Since we are all equal in observing the five precepts of
Buddhism, we
feel we must rely on each other.  If
we have sincere prayers,
sometimes we can help our children.
That woman—or rather, that celestial being—who
helped me in my previous life, that
's me.  This Bodhisattva Suala
was a child in a previous life, and upon becoming a
celestial being, she must have genuine love for
her child, must have truly sacrificed for her child,
and only then, with her vow, could she
save this child.  So,
I feel the same way; I want to help my
friends and fellow practitioners, and this compassion
of mine broadens even further.  If we can
equally love and help everyone,
then when the time comes, we can help our own children,
strangers
, and even fellow practitioners.  That means
we just need to have equal love
.  That applies to all sentient beings, and it must be a
genuine practice of the Dharma.  So,
in this lesson, each of us should just focus on
this one thought.   We, your
disciples, wholeheartedly rely on the Three Jewels,
striving to make them abundant and transform them into reality
.
And the second thing is that the salary depends on the
harmonious practice of the community.  This also
needs to be done to make it a reality.
When my son and his wife started arguing, I
made a vow that if I practice
harmony with the community, I will also pray
that they can resolve their conflict and
stop fighting. I believe that the merit of
my harmonious practice will have a
positive effect and bring about transformation.  So
where does that aspiration originate from?
Aspirations must stem from
one's own genuine accomplishment in virtuous
deeds.  When our vows
acquire power, the power of our
vows
is fulfilled
from a sincere heart,
stemming from the results of
sincere actions that have been accomplished.
Then we will gain the power
of karma, the power of our vows, and
our vows will have an effect.  Therefore,
our Buddhist disciples must
rely on the community to respect
their guide and practice the Dharma in
harmony.  We must follow the rules that have been set
forth.  If we want to change, we
must discuss it together, then
continue practicing according to what we
have established. Only then will we gain the
power of karma, the power of our
vows.  The power of vows to benefit all
sentient beings.  That is the earnest hope of the
public in this Buddhist sutra: that we
may gain some practice for our Buddhist followers
.
And regarding the part about
our compassionate hearts
sometimes
losing sight of compassion, I
discussed this with the Buddhist group
earlier, but when the teacher lectured on that, I
realized that I myself
have lost sight of compassion quite a
lot, not just a few times.  That means when
our bodies are tired,
our practice is
n't as good as it could be, and therefore we
lose focus, as you all know.
We need to recognize our own shortcomings before
we can avoid arrogance.
There were times when Yen would look
at her phone and it would ring all
day long, working day and night
without a break.  Questions,
messages, phone calls—it's exhausting.
There are times when, upon seeing the phone, I
suddenly feel
unhappy.  Feeling a little annoyed,
a little irritated because I was so tired, I
had to turn my mind around at that moment.
That's when the mind becomes distracted.   For
example, I'm going to just tell you about what
happened today
.
I've been trying all morning.  By the
time dinner was over, it was 1:10 PM, and
I said that I
wanted to sleep a little from 1:10 to 1:30 PM because I
had to get up then. But I only managed to lie down for 10 minutes
before my phone started ringing again.
Seeing the phone call didn't bring me any joy,
but I still answered.
That's what you call losing your sense of compassion
.
That means we may be performing acts of compassion,
but our hearts are not truly joyful.
It wasn't really joyful.  Then there are
times when we lose sight of compassion and lose sight of
enlightenment.  That means sometimes we want to,
or we choose a path, we practice
asceticism to attain nirvana and rest, because with so
many things happening at
this exponential rate, when will it ever end?   If we
're not going to expand, then so be it, but since we have, too
many people are asking about it.  Day and night, from
12:00 AM to 1 AM, the phone still works
normally.
Too little sleep,
too much fatigue.   And
then, situations
like these keep happening one after another.  While I
was on this call,
another call popped up on the dialer, not just
once, three times, or four times.  Then, as soon as I hang
up this call, I'll have to call the other person
back because they're getting
impatient and calling me.  The sound lasted for
5 seconds
without stopping.
Are you tired?
That's a decaying Bodhi mind.
But at that moment, I thought, "
Okay, I'll just practice
Nirvana, I don't know how
long it will take to reach the end."
Then I thought again, if that's the case, I won't be able to
attain supreme enlightenment.  To attain
supreme enlightenment, one must not reject karmic connections
.
Then try again.  What were those other times
?
It is the rottenness of a heart devoid of compassion.  So,
I'm someone who has lost a
lot of compassion.  Once, a long time ago, Yen rode her
bicycle to work alone, and it
was freezing cold.
From one house, I cycled to the next,
seeing the streets going in both directions.  People were
rushing home, hurrying back to their
families.  As for me, I
started riding that bicycle from house to house all by
myself.  Yen looked ahead and saw the
electric lights.  As night fell
,
my mind naturally began to wander.
I just realized that I truly made the
Bodhisattva vow to liberate all sentient beings.
So when will the crabs, the fish, and the ants appear
?  So, are
we just going to be here endlessly like this?
Is it really that endless?  That moment,
that moment of hesitation, was when
I was failing, meaning I was being
considered, but I hadn't yet reached
the stage of unwavering progress.
To attain supreme enlightenment, one must have
unwavering diligence.
That means we must keep our minds
focused and diligent at all times.
Diligence must be accompanied by joy
to be considered true diligence.  As long as
we keep pushing ourselves, that's just the beginning of
practicing diligence, not
true diligence.
Diligence should be accompanied by joy.
Yen used to
sleep alone all day long.  For example, today I might
go to this house, finish some work, help
someone with some grave digging, attend a funeral, sleep for a
while in the fort in the cemetery, or in some
grave, while waiting for the next job
.
Eating in cemeteries, sleeping in parks, sleeping along the
roadside, eating along the roadside—it means I
have no time to rest.  You can ride a
motorbike, sitting on the back, sleeping during
the time you spend sitting on the back of the motorbike traveling from one
place to another. It's
not like sleeping
in a bed; it's like
resting by sitting on the back of a motorbike. Isn't
that hard work causing a decline in the Bodhi mind?
There are times when it's called
abandoning the Bodhi mind,
but it does diminish it.
That's it, all those hardships and difficulties
, to achieve the supreme enlightenment
through one's own efforts, only then can one truly
understand the immeasurable merit of the Buddha
, a merit beyond the comprehension of one's own
intellect.
Only when I have done all of
that can I say that I have
compassion for all living beings.
He attained enlightenment and saved
all sentient beings because he possessed an
unwavering and tireless compassion for all beings.  Then I'm just a speck of
dust in the desert, not someone who can
think from a piece of paper and claim to have conceived
of compassion.  It really requires
practice in your body, speech, and mind
.  It really has to be genuine
evidence; it's not something ordinary
.
There are days when, after being tired all day and
night, the ligaments become stretched.  There are
days when Yen goes to practice meditation in
this position.  But still, no one knew that
she was in pain, working hard all day
without rest, and after
performing rituals here and there, by the
next morning, when she returned home,
Yen's tongue was almost always
burning.  The surface of this tongue feels
like it's been burned.  That means if you're going to help
people, you have to explain things,
explain Buddhist teachings, encourage them to
practice, and
motivate them to cultivate themselves so that their karma can be
transformed.  After returning to
the residence, they set off again at 4:00 AM the next morning
.   In
a month, there are only really
three to six days of rest in the monastery
.  Where else could one find such a body, more than anything,
more like an animal in the forest?  That
means it's only really full outdoors
.  There.  Why did Yen say she came here?
so that the masses will happily
follow suit.
That's it, the book encourages the masses to
realize that their own spiritual practice is still
very small, compared to themselves,
not to the Buddhas and
Bodhisattvas.  So, don't be lazy then
.  Don't be lazy.
To practice compassion according to the
Dharma, is it not enough to
eliminate harm if one possesses boundless compassion?
In that sutra, Mi Tien still
responds by encouraging us to cultivate a compassionate heart.  Compassion
must go hand in hand with selflessness.  Therefore,
as soon as Yen said she saw the phone number,
she felt uncomfortable because she was tired.
That's before any wedding.  That means there is no letting go of the mind,
no letting go of the body.  I was held back
by a feeling of weariness.  For a practitioner,
one must overcome all
physical and mental obstacles and
always maintain joy.  Therefore, people say that when they
sit and meditate on the four
immeasurable minds, we hear and know that it's just their
imagination.  It turns
out that imagination is the ego, mistakenly believing that one has truly attained
the four immeasurable states of mind.  I sit
here and I love all living beings.
What is that?
That's just my imagination.  But if
sentient beings try to harm you, or try to make sacrifices
for them day and night without
ceasing, then you can test whether you are compassionate.
So, that's what true compassion is all about.
In this article, Yen also
conveys to us the idea of
whether we have compassion within ourselves
and how to cultivate compassion.  Only then can
I truly appreciate the
merits of the Buddhas.  With sincere reverence to all the
monks.  Only by showing genuine respect and reverence to the
monks can one receive blessings.  I've
finally found a place I can turn to, a
place I know is my refuge.  There's no
need to call it irreversible.  Unwavering faith
in the Buddhas and the
Three Jewels.
So, everyone else has to do the
practical work.  This is a path we must walk;
no one can achieve liberation
without practice.  You have to go through
it to find liberation.  But
if we want to benefit ourselves,
we still have to practice compassion.  And
to benefit others, one must have a
truly compassionate heart.  Only with
genuine aspirations can one truly help sentient beings
.  It's not about using your ego to get the job done
.  If you go to someone's house
but your heart is filled with jealousy, envy, and
attachment, then they
won't be able to accept what you say
.  They only accept "
yes" (or "no").  Whether you have compassion in your heart or malice, anger, and
all sorts of other negative emotions, then
you go there and talk to them.  Even if you tell a
story about compassion, a story about
karma that's meant to be hurtful to people, and you tell it
alongside other stories,
people won't accept the hurtful stories;
they'll accept the
other stories instead.  Because that and this mean we understand each
other perfectly.  But
that compassionate and loving heart is not meant to be in
harmony with the mind.  Therefore, we must have
a compassionate heart, not a
malicious heart or a wicked ego, otherwise we will not be compatible
with their evil hearts.  I only connect with
their kind hearts, and then they will
accept the good aspects of myself.  Well, you'll have to
try your best then.  It's
almost 10 o'clock now.  Today, the
public has an inflationary amount of time.  Please be pleased, everyone
.  Now, let us all
join hands and dedicate the merit of
this deed, praying that all
disciples and sentient beings may
attain
Buddhahood.   Let's all
go on vacation, okay? We'll talk about it
tomorrow.